.TH DFU\-PROGRAMMER 1 "May 28, 2014" "DFU\-PROGRAMMER" ""
.SH NAME
dfu\-programmer \- USB firmware upgrading for Atmel microcontrollers
.nh
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B dfu\-programmer
target[:usb\-bus,usb\-addr] command [options] [parameters]
.br
.B dfu\-programmer
\-\-help
.br
.B dfu\-programmer
\-\-targets
.br
.B dfu\-programmer
\-\-version
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B dfu\-programmer
is a multi\-platform command line Device Firmware Upgrade (DFU) based programmer
for the flash memory on Atmel AVR, AVR32, XMEGA and 8051 based microcontrollers
which ship with a USB boot loader.
It supports In System Programming (ISP) for developers and potentially
product updates in the field.
Those boot loaders are patterned after the standard USB DFU 1.0 class
specification, but depend on extensions defined by Atmel to the extent
that standard DFU drivers will not work.
.PP
To use it, first connect the device to be programmed and ensure that it
comes up in DFU mode.
The microcontrollers come up in that mode as shipped by Atmel;
or they may reenter that mode after a special hardware reset.
Then invoke this program to issue one or more DFU commands.
You will normally need to start by issuing the "erase" command;
the default security policies prevent extracting firmware, to prevent
reverse engineering of what is usually proprietary code.
.SH SUPPORTED MICROCONTROLLERS
These chip names are used as the command line "target" parameter.
.IP "8051 based controllers:"
at89c51snd1c, at89c51snd2c, at89c5130, at89c5131,
at89c5132
.IP "AVR based controllers:"
at90usb1287, at90usb1286, at90usb1287\-4k, at90usb1286\-4k,
at90usb647, at90usb646, at90usb162, at90usb82,
atmega32u6, atmega32u4, atmega32u2, atmega16u4,
atmega16u2, atmega8u2
.IP "AVR32 based controllers:"
at32uc3a0128, at32uc3a1128, at32uc3a0256, at32uc3a1256,
at32uc3a0512, at32uc3a1512, at32uc3a0512es, at32uc3a1512es,
at32uc3a364, at32uc3a364s, at32uc3a3128, at32uc3a3128s,
at32uc3a3256, at32uc3a3256s, at32uc3a4256s, at32uc3b064,
at32uc3b164, at32uc3b0128, at32uc3b1128, at32uc3b0256,
at32uc3b1256, at32uc3b0256es, at32uc3b1256es, at32uc3b0512,
at32uc3b1512, at32uc3c064, at32uc3c0128, at32uc3c0256,
at32uc3c0512, at32uc3c164, at32uc3c1128, at32uc3c1256,
at32uc3c1512, at32uc3c264, at32uc3c2128, at32uc3c2256,
at32uc3c2512
.IP "XMEGA based controllers:"
atxmega64a1u, atxmega128a1u, atxmega64a3u, atxmega128a3u,
atxmega192a3u, atxmega256a3u, atxmega16a4u, atxmega32a4u,
atxmega64a4u, atxmega128a4u, atxmega256a3bu, atxmega64b1,
atxmega128b1, atxmega64b3, atxmega128b3, atxmega64c3,
atxmega128c3, atxmega256c3, atxmega384c3, atxmega16c4,
atxmega32c4
.IP "STM32F4 controllers (experimental):"
stm32f4_B, stm32f4_C, stm32f4_E, stm32f4_G

.SH USAGE
There are no mechanisms to implement gang programming.
By default, the first device that matches the id codes for the
given target is selected. Many targets share the same id codes.
Accordingly, you will usually avoid connecting more than one
device of a given family (AVR, XMEGA, AVR32 or 8051) at a time.
.PP
The target may be qualified with the USB bus and address number
of the device you wish to program. This allows programming multiple
devices of the same family at the same time.
.PP
All of these commands support the "global options".
Unless you override it,
commands which write to the microcontroller will perform
a validation step that rereads the data which was written,
compares it to the expected result, and reports any errors.
.PP
Note that unlike Atmel's BatchISP program, dfu\-programmer will
only perform a single operation at a time. Erasing and programming
require separate commands.
.HP
.B configure
register
[\-\-suppress\-validation]
data
.br
Bootloaders for 8051 based controllers support writing certain
configuration bytes.
.HP
.B dump
[\-\-force]
[\-\-bin]
[(flash)|\-\-user|\-\-eeprom]
.br
Reads the program memory in flash and output non\-blank pages in ihex format
to stdout.  Use \-\-force to output the entire memory and \-\-bin for binary
output.  User page and eeprom are selected using \-\-user and \-\-eeprom.
.HP
.B erase
[\-\-force]
.br
Erases all the flash memory.  For AT90 and ATmega type devices a
chip erase must be performed before other commands become available.
Erase first checks if the memory is blank unless \-\-force flag is set.
.HP
.B flash
[\-\-force]
[(flash)|\-\-user|\-\-eeprom]
[\-\-suppress\-validation]
[\-\-suppress\-bootloader\-mem]
[\-\-serial=hexbytes:offset]
file or STDIN
.br
Writes flash memory.  The input file (or stdin) must use the "ihex" file
format convention for a memory image. \-\-suppress\-bootloader\-mem
ignores any data written to the bootloader memory space when flashing
the device.  This option is particularly useful for the AVR32 chips.
The \-\-force flag tells the program to ignore whether memory inside
the program region is blank.
User page and eeprom are selected using \-\-user and \-\-eeprom.
The user space flash on AVR32 chips lies outside of the normal range
of flash blocks and is designed to contain configuration parameters.
Bootloader configuration uses the last 4 to 8 bytes of the user page.
If this data is corrupted, the device will restart into the
bootloader until valid data is used (see atmel doc7745 or doc32166).
\-\-force is always required here.
.PP
\-\-serial provides a way to inject a serial number or other unique
sequence of bytes into the memory image programmed into the
device. This allows using a single .ihex file to program multiple
devices, and still give each device its own unique serial number. For
example, \-\-serial=ABCDEF01:0x6000 would program the byte at 0x6000
with the hex value AB, the byte at 0x6001 with the value CD, and so
on. There must be an even number of hex digits, but the sequence can
be any length. The offset is assumed to be given in hex if it starts
with a "0x" prefix, octal if it begins with a "0", otherwise is it
assumed to be decimal.
.HP
.B setsecure
.br
Sets the security bit on AVR32 chips.  This prevents the content being
read back from the chip, except in the same session in which it was
programmed.  When the security fuse is set, almost nothing will work
without first executing the erase command.  The only way to clear the
security fuse once set is to use a JTAG chip erase, which will also
erase the bootloader.
.HP
.B get
register
.br
Displays various product identifier bytes.
.HP
.B launch
[\-\-no\-reset]
.br
Launch the application by resetting the device. The \-\-no\-reset flag
can be used to launch the device without a reset (jump to the start
address of the program).
.SS Global Options
\-\-quiet \- minimizes the output

\-\-debug level \- enables verbose output at the specified level
.SS Configure Registers
The standard bootloader for 8051 based chips supports writing
data bytes which are not relevant for the AVR based chips.
.LP
BSB \- boot status byte
.br
SBV \- software boot vector
.br
SSB \- software security byte
.br
EB  \- extra byte
.br
HSB \- hardware security byte
.SS Get Register
bootloader\-version \- currently flashed bootloader version
.br
ID1 \- device boot identification 1
.br
ID2 \- device boot identification 2
.br
manufacturer \- the hardware manufacturer code
.br
family \- the product family code
.br
product\-name \- the product name
.br
product\-revision \- the product revision
.br
HSB \- same as the configure_register version
.br
BSB \- same as the configure_register version
.br
SBV \- same as the configure_register version
.br
SSB \- same as the configure_register version
.br
EB  \- same as the configure_register version
.SH BUGS
None known.
.SH KNOWN ISSUES
The at90usb series chips do not make available any read/write protect
flags so the
.B dump
or
.B flash
command may fail with a less than helpful error message.
.PP
To remove
.B any
write or read protection from any chips, a full chip erasure is required.
For AVR32 chips an erase operation over USB will remove protection until the
device is rebooted. To remove the protection more permanently requires a
JTAG erase (which will also erase the bootloader).
.PP
You may need to be a member of the
.B uucp
group in order to have access to the device without needing to be root.
.SH AUTHOR
Weston Schmidt <weston_schmidt@alumni.purdue.edu>
.SH SEE ALSO
.UR dfu\-programmer.sourceforge.net
http://dfu\-programmer.sourceforge.net
.UR USB DFU Bootloader Datasheet (8052, AVR)
http://www.atmel.com/Images/doc7618.pdf
.UR AVR32 UC3 USB DFU Bootloader Protocol
http://www.atmel.com/Images/doc32131.pdf
.UR FLIP USB DFU Protocol
http://www.atmel.com/Images/doc8457.pdf
.UR AVR32 UC3 USB DFU Bootloader
http://www.atmel.com/Images/doc7745.pdf
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright (C) 2005\-2015 Weston Schmidt

This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or
(at your option) any later version.

This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
GNU General Public License for more details.

You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
along with this program; if not, write to the Free Software
Foundation, Inc., 51 Franklin Street, Fifth Floor, Boston, MA 02110\-1301, USA
